\documentclass[10pt]{article}
\usepackage[left=1in, right=1in, top=1in, bottom=1in]{geometry}
\begin{document}
\author{Armon Shariati}
\title{}
\date{}
\maketitle

Forty-five years ago, the Iranian monarchy was dissolved to pave way for the
Islamic Republic. In the process, members of the generations old Persian
aristocracy were detained, had all their possessions stripped from them, and
often times executed. However, many of those who rose to power during this time
never forgot how they were treated by the aristocratic families that governed
their lands. Furthermore, by the virtue of the great lengths my mother's family
- one of the oldest and most influential - had gone to protect and provide for
the people they were responsible for, many gave their lives to ensure they were
spared. This is the legacy my mother always sought to uphold. She had told me
that she became a transplant surgeon for three reasons. First, it had always
been her passion since she saw an American surgeon save her mother's life.
Second, protecting human life had always been a sacred cornerstone of her
family's values. Thirdly, so that her children's ambitions would never be
driven by money. Ultimately, she was successful. My mother used her resources
to educate her children about the world.  By my eighteenth birthday, I had
studied abroad in four different countries and visited twelve. I had
volunteered as both an EMT at a Belizean medical clinic and a skipper's
assistant aboard a catamaran touring the Caribbean.  None of the luxuries or
experiences life had to offer were out of reach. Yet, despite all of these
indulgences, I felt empty. I had no passion.  I was terrified by the thought of
spending my life being the last link in a long chain of heroes, and to do
nothing to uphold that tradition.

I arrived at Lehigh University insatiably curious. I had applied as an English
major, with a strong interest in Philosophy.  Up until this point, I had
thought literature had been my calling. However, I knew my zeal for English
paled in comparison to how my mother felt about medicine. By some twist of
fortune, I was forced to take Introduction to Computer Science my first
semester because all of the electives I was interested in, such as Greek
Tragedy, were full. I did not expect to see that the same flow of logic I used
to analyze literature appeared in writing software. Quickly, my interest
devolved into an obsession.  Within the first few weeks of the semester I
tirelessly asked numerous Professors for any opportunities to work with them.
With absolutely zero background in technology, my pleas fell on deaf ears.
Professor Michael Spear was the only one to take me seriously. Together, we
developed a robotics platform that leveraged the computational capacity and
compact form factor of Android smart phones. We created a fun set of demos and
took them to a local elementary school to generate interest in STEM fields.
Looking back, the task was charmingly elementary. However, while the
satisfaction of instilling the smallest amount of excitement into the
elementary school students was a sufficient reward itself, I learned much in my
time working with Professor Spear.  I learned how to manage frustration, to
become self-reliant, and the importance of education outside the classroom. All
of which became the seeds to my later love for research.

Professor Spear noticed my growing interest in robotics and put me in touch
with Professor Spletzer, the advisor of our robotics lab. I began working
shortly there after. It was horrible...or so I had thought. My mentor's name
was Dylan Schweisinger, a PhD student. Dylan did his best to break down every
piece of my self-esteem. He would give me work far beyond my abilities, berate
me for my ignorance, and ultimately make me question if this was indeed the
path I wanted to take. I know that this must be my passion, because in those
lowest moments of self-doubt and confusion, I constantly found the answer to be
\emph{yes}. At the time, I did not appreciate what Dylan had done for me. I had
been full of pride in light of my previous accomplishments. By forcing me to
confront my own ignorance and ego, I became humbled and patient, ready to begin
learning for its own sake. Since I started working in the VADERLAB nearly a
year and a half ago, I have spent every day under Dylan's tutelage.  He taught
me how to engineer software by making me wallow and suffer with any code I
wrote. He taught me how to start generalizing theoretical mathematics concepts
for use as engineering tools. He taught me to take pride in any aspect of
development I am apart of, and to never deliver any less than my best work.
Most importantly, he taught me the fundamentals of introducing soul into
playing blues guitar. 

Finally, at the onset of my senior year I have finally acquired the skills to
spearhead a graduate level research project, our mapping tricycle. The tricycle
system begins by taking a series of planar LIDAR scans. From the aggregated
scans, we segment out pole-like landmarks such as street signs, lamp posts, and
parking meters, and assign each landmark a GPS coordinate on a UTM plane.  The
end result is a 2D map of landmarks, which our autonomous wheelchair can use to
negotiate paths between locations of interest in urban settings. Honestly, the
hardest part is to find the will to address other aspects of my life as I pour
every ounce of energy into the project. Doing research in robotics is the most
joyful experience I have yet encountered. Becoming a professor in the field of
robotics has become my dream. Insofar I can not only commit my time to
developing some of the most useful technology that helps and protects people,
but lends itself to making a difference in the lives of those you inevitably
teach just as Professor Spear, Professor Spletzer, and Dylan had all done for
me. I finally discovered a path that is in line with my own passions and yet
honors a legacy I am a part of, just like my mother.

I bring to my future graduate program a strong grasp of the fundamentals of
mobile robotics. Having worked in such a small laboratory, I was forced early
on to learn as much as I could in various disciplines, from manufacturing, to
controls design, to planning, and to perception. However, more importantly, I
hope to bring my zest for learning and the desire to help those around me. 

\end{document}
